.TH TICKIT_RENDERBUFFER_TEXT 3
.SH NAME
tickit_renderbuffer_text, tickit_renderbuffer_text_at \- create text regions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.B #include <tickit.h>
.sp
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_text(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        const char *" text );
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_textn(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        const char *" text ", size_t " len );
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_textf(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        const char *" fmt ", ...);"
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_vtextf(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        const char *" fmt ", va_list " args );
.sp
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_text_at(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        int " line ", int " col ", const char *" text );
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_textn_at(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        int " line ", int " col ", const char *" text ", size_t " len );
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_textf_at(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        int " line ", int " col ", const char *" fmt ", ...);"
.BI "int tickit_renderbuffer_vtextf_at(TickitRenderBuffer *" rb ,
.BI "        int " line ", int " col ", const char *" fmt ", va_list " args );
.EE
.sp
Link with \fI\-ltickit\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtickit_renderbuffer_text\fP() creates a text region that starts at the current virtual cursor position, containing the given text string and set to the current pen. \fBtickit_renderbuffer_textn\fP() creates a text region of at most \fIlen\fP bytes. It returns the number of columns that the text string occupies.  \fBtickit_renderbuffer_textf\fP() and \fBtickit_renderbuffer_vtextf\fP() take a format string in the style of \fBsprintf\fP(3) to create formatted text from either a list of arguments or a \fIva_list\fP. These functions will update the virtual cursor position.
.PP
\fBtickit_renderbuffer_text_at\fP(), \fBtickit_renderbuffer_textn_at\fP(), \fBtickit_renderbuffer_textf_at\fP() and \fBtickit_renderbuffer_vtextf_at\fP() create a text region at the given position, and otherwise operate analogously to their non-\fB_at\fP counterpart. These functions do not use or update the virtual cursor position.
.PP
Calls to any of these functions allocate storage owned by the \fITickitRenderBuffer\fP instance itself to store the strings. This storage is released again by \fBtickit_renderbuffer_reset\fP(3), the implicit reset that happens at the end of \fBtickit_renderbuffer_flush_to_term\fP(3), or when every cell that was originally part of the region has been overwritten with other content.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
These functions return an integer giving the number of columns the new region occupies.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tickit_renderbuffer_new (3),
.BR tickit_renderbuffer_blit (3),
.BR tickit_renderbuffer_flush_to_term (3),
.BR tickit_renderbuffer (7),
.BR tickit (7)
